I remember when I was a teenager, playing gully cricket with tennis balls, with my friends every evening. There were always a few batsmen who were known for their fierce hitting skills. Young men who had the capability to hit any and every bowler out of the maidan/gully. The kids on the opposing teams were elated when they managed to get these guys out cheaply. But every time those lanky, almost fearless willow-wielders walked out, everyone knew that a storm could be on the horizon and that perhaps no window in the colony was safe.
There is no comparison of course between gully cricket and international cricket, but it’s fascinating how some batsmen manage to evoke that same sense of fear and awe in opposition teams in the international arena as well, by virtue of their sheer, almost inhuman hitting skills, irrespective of when they last had a big score. Some things never change. They, of course, do go through lean spells, but there’s no saying when these sleeping giants might wake up again. Case in point – Chris Gayle and Glenn Maxwell.
In the three ODIs that the West Indies have played so far vs England in the ongoing series (the 3rd ODI at St. George’s was washed out), Gayle has had scores of 135, 50 and 162. That’s a total of 347 runs, at an average of almost 116. No prizes for guessing that he is the leading run- scorer of the series so far. In quintessential style, the Jamaican has hit 15 fours and double the number of sixes. Not bad for a 39-year-old, who before this series, last played an ODI in July 2018. In fact, Gayle had picked the first edition of the Afghanistan Premier League over West Indies’ tour of the subcontinent last year. But that’s not the kicker. Incredibly, before the ODI series vs England began, Gayle had announced that he would be retiring from ODI cricket after the upcoming World Cup in England and Wales. But it seems his form in the 50 over format has surprised the self-proclaimed ‘Universe Boss’ himself. After his 162 run knock in the 4th ODI, Gayle has hinted that he might decide to ‘un-retire’.
That Gayle, who is second on the list of maximum sixes hit in One Day Internationals (behind Shahid Afridi), has come back to the international fold and immediately showed just how destructive he can be, is not really a big surprise. What is very interesting though is that the World Cup is just about three months away. The fact that he had earlier announced that he would retire from ODI cricket after the World Cup showed that he was confident perhaps that he would be in the West Indies squad for the showpiece event. Now, it wouldn’t be surprising if the selectors have already written his name down as a player who will definitely be boarding the flight to England.